'\" -*- nroff -*-
'\" Copyright (c) 2000 Donal K. Fellows
'\"
'\" The author hereby grants permission to use, copy, modify, distribute,
'\" and license this software and its documentation for any purpose, provided
'\" that existing copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this
'\" notice is included verbatim in any distributions. No written agreement,
'\" license, or royalty fee is required for any of the authorized uses.
'\" Modifications to this software may be copyrighted by their authors
'\" and need not follow the licensing terms described here, provided that
'\" the new terms are clearly indicated on the first page of each file where
'\" they apply.
'\"
'\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
'\" FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
'\" ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY
'\" DERIVATIVES THEREOF, EVEN IF THE AUTHOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
'\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
'\"
'\" THE AUTHOR AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
'\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
'\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  THIS SOFTWARE
'\" IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHOR AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE
'\" NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
'\" MODIFICATIONS.
'\" 
'\" $Id$
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Shape_QueryVersion 3 0.4 Shape "Non-rectangular Window Extension"

.BS
.SH "NAME"
Shape_GetBbox, Shape_GetShapeRectanglesObj, Shape_QueryVersion,
Shape_ExtensionPresent \- get info about a shaping or the shaping
subsystem
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB#include <shape.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBShape_GetBbox(\fIinterp, tkwin, getClip, valid, x1, y1, x2, y2\fB)\fR
.sp
int
\fBShape_GetShapeRectanglesObj(\fIinterp, tkwin, getClip\fB)\fR
.sp
int
\fBShape_QueryVersion(\fItkwin, majorPtr, minorPtr\fB)\fR
.sp
int
\fBShape_ExtensionPresent(\fItkwin\fB)\fR
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.AS "Tk_Window" "*majorPtr"
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting and providing the result from
\fBShape_GetShapeRectanglesObj\fR.
.AP Tk_Window tkwin in
Token for window to query the shaping of.
.AP int getClip in
Whether to use the clipping shape of the window (see MODIFICATION
TARGETS in the Shape_MoveShape(3) manual page for a discussion.)
.AP int *valid out
Whether a valid bounding box is present for the shape of the window.
.AP int *x1 out
The x-coordinate of the left side of the bounding box.
.AP int *y1 out
The y-coordinate of the top side of the bounding box.
.AP int *x2 out
The x-coordinate of the right side of the bounding box.
.AP int *y2 out
The y-coordinate of the bottom side of the bounding box.
.AP int *majorPtr out
The major version of the X Shaped Window extension installed on the
XServer.
.AP int *minorPtr out
The minor version of the X Shaped Window extension installed on the
XServer.
.BE

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Shape_GetBbox
queries the bounding box of the bounding shape (or the clipping shape
if \IgetClip\fR is set) of the given window (specified by
\fItkwin\fR.)  If a shape is defined for the window, the flag
indicated by \fIvalid\fR is set and the bounds are passed in \fIx1\fR,
\fIy1\fR, \fIx2\fR and \fIy2\fR.  If no shape is defined for the
window, the flag is reset instead.  In both cases, TCL_OK is returned
from the function.  If an error occurs, a message is left in the
specified interpreter and TCL_ERROR is returned; \fIvalid\fR is not
modified in this case.

.B Shape_GetShapeRectanglesObj
queries the bounding shape (or the clipping shape if \IgetClip\fR is
set) of the given window (specified by \fItkwin\fR.)  If the shape is
successfully queried, a description of the shape in terms of a list of
rectangles (each rectangle being represented by a list of four
elements identifying the coordinates of that rectangle) is placed in
the interpreter, \fIinterp\fR, and TCL_OK is returned.  If an error
occurs, a suitable message is placed in the interpreter, and TCL_ERROR
is returned.

.B Shape_QueryVersion
queries the version of the XShape extension installed on the (display
of the) XServer which window \fItkwin\fR exists on.  The result is
non-zero (true) if the query was successful (in which case the
variables identified by \fImajorVersion\fR and \fIminorVersion\fR are
updated to contain the version number details) and zero (false) if the
query failed.  \fIDummy values are returned under Windows.\fR

.B Shape_ExtensionPresent
queries whether the XShape extension is installed on the XServer which
window \fItkwin\fR exists on, returning a non-zero (true) value if
this is the case.  \fIThis function always succeeds on Windows due to
the way the linking works.\fR  This function is normally only called
during the initialisation of the extension.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Donal K. Fellows \fC<fellowsd@cs.man.ac.uk>\fR

.SH "SEE ALSO"
shape(n), Shape_MoveShape(3), Shape_RenderTextAsRectangles(3)
